What are the stages of application for procurement?
Let's take a closer look at the stages of application for procurement.
As I have already noted, one of the first and most important stages is the approval of specifications.
From my personal experience, I can tell you that very often there are situations when the procurement department employee and the internal customer,
the person or department that applies for the purchase of a particular material, do not agree with their actions.
As a result, the purchased equipment, goods, and even services do not always meet the expectations of the customer.
Therefore, one of the main priorities in the procurement process is a clear understanding that what the internal customer wants and what the procurement department acquires is the same.
On the other hand, there are very often situations when the internal customer does not know what models of equipment exist on the market,
and the procurement department manager's task is to explain, show the market, show the general picture to the customer,
in order to help him make the right choice, write the specification, and so on.
After the approval of the specifications, the phase of choosing suppliers begins.
What actions are included in this phase?
It is obvious that there is no unique search strategy.
Someone uses a yellow-page magazine, someone searches the Internet, someone has established connections for years, someone uses acquaintances.
This is one of the most difficult and serious phases, because the entire result of the procurement service depends on the supplier.
Here you need to assess not only the financial stability, not only the time the supplier exists and works on the market,
but also assess the future prospects, how long and how seriously this supplier can work with you in the future.
There is a concept of strategic suppliers.
Often, companies that provide raw materials or very expensive equipment or services are referred to this category of suppliers.
A strategic supplier can be referred to as an oil refinery and an oil supplier.
In this case, the oil supplier will be a strategic supplier, because the plant has a continuous cycle.
It is vital to have stable supplies so that the production cycle does not stop.
There are different strategies for finding suppliers for the effective use of the procurement resources.
Some companies that do not compete in one industry unite to strengthen the purchasing power.
By uniting the volumes of purchases, companies claim more favorable supply conditions.
One of the latest examples is the unification of a large and well-known e-commerce network in Russia with a large network in Ukraine.
By uniting their orders, these two companies, without competing in their markets, achieved a 5% discount on the purchase of a certain brand of household electronics.
We have already discussed prices and supply conditions.
Now let's talk about price quotas.
What are price quotas?
Price quotas are offers and conditions that are received from the supplier to the procurement department.
Usually, price quotas describe conditions, supply, place, quantity.
After receiving these documents, the company employees, not only the procurement department employees, but also the internal customers, have a difficult task to determine the fair price of the purchase.
I would like to note that very often the lowest price is understood as the best.
But from experience, I would say that this is not always the case.
You need to look at the overall factors and what the company gets in the end, having paid a certain price.
The so-called cost of the product and what value this product, purchased at a certain price, will bring to the company.
Therefore, the factors that are taken into account when making a decision are, of course, the price, quality, and supply conditions.
The possibility of constant and timely, uninterrupted delivery.
And one very important factor is the service, after-sale service, the overall level of cooperation, the exchange of documents, the exchange of information.
These conditions are the basis for making a decision.
To adopt a strategy for purchasing, the procurement department manager must take all the above factors as a guide to action.
After a potential supplier is determined, the phase of receiving the product to the warehouse comes.
It is certainly very important where and in what condition the product you have purchased will end up.
The specialist in receiving the product to the warehouse, in our understanding, is often called a storekeeper,
must notify the procurement service about the product received, what application the product was accepted for,
whether the quantity, quality, packaging, marking, additional conditions correspond to those that were declared by the internal client or internal customer.
As soon as the procurement manager receives information about the availability of the product, the payment phase for the received product begins.
The payment phase for the received product is called the pre-payment phase.
The role of the procurement service specialist is to monitor the timely payment,
since we are responsible to the supplier for the fulfillment of our obligations.
Summing up the work of the procurement department, it should be noted that in fact it is one of the most specific,
one of the most complex functions that are included in the entire delivery system.
It is no secret that this is the department where there are abuse, violations of corporate ethics, violations of business ethics.
Therefore, one of the key tasks, and I would say the most important task, is to select the personnel,
to select the personnel for the delivery system in general and specifically for the procurement department.
Inbound logistics.
Traditionally, inbound logistics is associated with the process of purchasing and delivering materials to the warehouse.
Obtaining and storing raw materials is the first and main part of the entire logistics process.
Some researchers consider the inbound logistics to be a fairly limited function,
which includes elements such as purchasing and transporting goods to the warehouse.
I would like to note the difference between inbound and outbound logistics.
Since outbound logistics is a subject of its activity,
the inbound logistics mainly works with raw materials,
and the main difference between the types of raw materials and the various approaches to management of both inbound and outbound logistics is that
the first difference is the market demand, which affects the outbound logistics.
Specifically, the client dictates, if one can say so, dictates,
he makes his requirements to the organization for packaging, for the completion of the finished product,
while the inbound logistics operates with the material or raw material that does not require such a careful approach to the selection of the equipment as the outbound logistics require.
The second difference is the very essence of the transported goods.
The material specialist who is part of the purchasing service in the inbound logistics phase
works mainly with large masses of raw materials and components.
In addition, the raw materials have other requirements for transportation, storage, than the finished product,
which significantly affects the choice of type of transportation and carrier.
I believe that the most significant difference is that for the warehouse worker,
the work is facilitated by the fact that the raw materials and their quality are discussed much earlier,
both by the customer and the purchasing department, in order to ensure the incoming quality,
while the warehouse worker of the finished product should pay great attention to the safety and completeness of the finished product.
The decision on the type of transportation of the finished product and its cost is the competence of the loading managers.
In fact, both the inbound and the outbound logistics have two common elements – storage and transportation.
Let's talk in a nutshell about the storage process.
The goal and the tasks of this function are storage, sorting and timely delivery of raw materials and finished products.
Storage is an integral part of the delivery system.
The main goals of the storage and storage process are reducing the costs of transportation,
the possibility of product combination, improving the service level and the continuity of the production cycle.
The main operations of the storage of raw materials and finished products can be illustrated as follows.
The main tasks of the storage and storage process are receiving and checking the compliance,
unpacking, re-packing, dividing into parts, combining and making the production mix,
moving to the storage area, checking the quantity, writing off the defective raw material,
and the final delivery of the finished product.
The main tasks of the storage and storage process are the use of the storage area and the volume of the storage,
the use of machines and mechanisms for moving the finished product,
the creation and application of storage plans, the absence of so-called unoccupied islands in the area of the storage area,
the availability of appropriate storage conditions, ventilation, access roads.
In conclusion, I would like to note the importance and role of planning the management of the warehouse economy.
When making a decision on the management strategy of the warehouse economy,
it is necessary to take into account such factors as the form of ownership of the warehouse,
the number of warehouses, the territory, the size, the availability of warehouse equipment.
When talking about improving the operation of the warehouse, such criteria are usually taken into account.
Reducing the distance between the loading and unloading points,
increasing the number of raw materials or materials loaded into one movement,
double-sided loading of warehouse equipment and the use of technologies.
You know that many companies have switched to the use of software or high-tech for efficient storage operation.
Among them, such as barcoding, automatic loading and unloading,
the use of software and high-tech for efficient storage operation.
When talking about the logistics, it is necessary to mention transport.
What is transport?
When transporting raw materials and finished products,
it is usually meant to move goods from one point to another geographically.
This is the element that constitutes the delivery system as one of the most capital-intensive.
The importance of this function is evidenced by the fact that almost at every enterprise
there is a position or a person who is responsible for the transport.
In the context of the procurement service or the delivery system,
regardless of how the transport is used,
either it is a third-party company providing services,
or there is its own transport department or site,
there is always a person or a function that controls the transportation of materials from one point to another.
The transportation of materials is a service,
but regardless of the fact that it is a service,
the acquisition of this service is comparable to the acquisition of materials.
One of the aspects of transportation is, in essence, a service for moving goods.
This aspect includes the main indicators,
speed, reliability and frequency of movement and delivery of this service.
The next important factor is the type of transport.
Traditionally, five types of transport are distinguished.
1. Pipe transport. It is used for liquid and gas-like products, such as oil, gas, water.
2. Air transport. In theory, any type of product can be transported by air,
but there are certain restrictions.
These are in terms of quantity, weight, size.
Accordingly, air transport is one of the most expensive, if not the most expensive.
3. Water transport.
Its significant difference is that it also allows you to transport almost any material.
It allows you to transport large-sized materials,
but there are restrictions due to low speed and geographical restrictions,
since not every point has access to a sea or river port.
4. Railway transport. Along with car transport, it is one of the most used.
It allows you to transport large volumes of goods, large dimensions, high delivery speed,
but there are also restrictions on the location,
since there are not railway routes and terminals laid everywhere.
Railway transport is often combined with other types of transport.
5. Automobile transport. Automobile transport is one of the most popular and often used.
Because the roads are laid on a large area, this type of transport is used most often.
It allows you to transport both small and large volumes of goods,
but at the same time there are restrictions on the use of this type of transport,
due to the fact that there are restrictions on dimensions,
and, especially due to the growing prices for energy carriers,
the cost of this type of transport is significantly increased.
It is obvious that depending on the type of transport, the type of transport is chosen.
Very often, when moving goods from one point to another,
the price factor affects the process of choosing the type of transport.
In this regard, the costs of transportation take up a significant place in the cost of the goods delivered to the enterprise.
Along with other additional costs for loading and unloading,
the price of the goods includes the cost set by the transport company.
The price factor can include loading and unloading,
packing requirements, special services,
for example, when transporting fuel lubricants,
for example, when transporting lubricants,
refrigeration transportation, and so on.
However, the transportation should not be considered only as a geographical movement of goods from one point to another.
Traditionally, the most frequently used approach is to provide services in a complex way.
As I said, this includes loading, unloading, and storage in the warehouse.
Thus, the main task of the managers of the delivery systems
is to select and combine the types of transport
to transport the necessary goods in the most profitable way.
For example, if we order a computer in China,
and at the same time we are in Moscow,
it is obvious that the most expensive means of delivery will be air transportation.
Therefore, combined transport is used,
for example, to the port in the Black Sea or the Baltic Sea,
and then it is transported by sea,
and then it is delivered by rail to the distributor center near Moscow,
and from the distributor center or from the warehouse,
it is transported by car to the supplier.
There are three ways to solve the issue of transportation.
The first is to create your own transport park.
For example, the Gazprom gas transportation system,
when the pipeline system belongs to this company.
It gets raw materials and delivers them to the suppliers through its gas transportation system.
Let's take the example of Coca-Cola.
All the cars that you can often see on the roads of the country
are owned by Coca-Cola.
Contractual relations with transport companies.
You know about the existence of a large number of car companies
that provide services for transportation.
Sea, air carriers.
And there are companies, so-called multi-modular companies,
which provide their services in a complex.
That is, having signed a contract with such a company,
you are completely dependent on their experience and expertise in the delivery of goods.
Such companies are Mayrsk, DHL, for example.
To sum up,
regardless of the chosen delivery strategy,
the complexity, the territory, the alternatives,
three factors remain decisive when choosing a transport.
These are cost, speed, reliability or uninterruptibility of deliveries.
On the table you will see comparative characteristics,
indicators of the efficiency of transport operation according to different criteria.
It is clear that the general assessment is the least acceptable.
This is still a water transport.
Due to the fact that the delivery speed is low,
technical capabilities are quite limited,
the risks of delivery, which provide reliability of delivery, are quite high.
However, the cost of transportation by water transport,
compared to other types of transport, is quite low.
Looking at the general assessment, we can see that car transport,
as it is in real life, is the most affordable and convenient
in terms of price, cost and uninterruptibility of deliveries.
Production and operational strategy.
The issue of production organization is quite complex.
Traditional operational management of enterprises
is associated with the production of a particular product.
However, in fact, the same principles apply to any type of business,
from production to service.
The decision on how to produce a product or service
is formed by your operational strategy.
What will you choose?
Production in-stock, production on order,
specific production development, or a combination of these options?
Maybe you will use the services of a third-party organization
to produce your main product?
Maybe you will choose production in another country
with subsequent delivery to your warehouse?
Where will a particular product be produced?
Where will the initial and final phase of production cycle be?
The solution to these issues is critical
due to their impact on the final cost of the finished product.
It forms the entire system structure,
and its purpose is to support the production cycle,
regardless of whether it is a bank, a transport company,
a production company or a producer.
Your production and operational strategy
directly affects the function and strategy of the delivery system.
Let's talk about the above-mentioned production strategies.
One of the most common is production in-stock.
This strategy is used for products
with a low level of variety of designs and forms.
It is best suited for standard products produced in large volumes.
The larger the volume of the produced batches,
the lower the cost of the final product.
The advantage of this system is that,
by producing a product and storing it in a warehouse,
the speed of response to customer requests increases.
If you receive an order for a particular type of product,
you can immediately unload it.
Production in-stock.
This strategy is preferred for products
produced in standard design and form,
but with the purpose of satisfying specific customer requirements.
The following strategies are used by companies
that produce products only when the customer has an order.
This allows them to maintain a low level of stock of finished products
and goods and to produce a wide range of products at the same time.
A typical example of this strategy is car production.
The way companies sell and produce cars
is that at a certain time,
the car distributor sends an order to the factory,
where the car brands are written,
their configuration, up to the color and so on.
The factory manufacturer, having received this order,
already forms its production cycle and production schedule.
Thus, exactly the number of cars that were ordered is unloaded,
and the unsold cars are not accumulated in the warehouse.
Ordering.
Ordering is a mixed strategy that allows you to produce a series of products,
but the final preparation and adjustment
is done for each customer separately upon receiving the order.
This strategy is usually used for those types of products
when a wide range is produced,
but companies need to maintain low warehouse reserves.
An example is the production of souvenir products
or products with the customer's logo.
When planning an advertising campaign,
the company may want to put the logo of its organization on a standard pen.
In this case, the factory manufacturer can store the pens of a standard type,
a standard shape in its warehouse,
but put the logo of a specific customer who orders this type of service.
And work on the order.
Usually, this strategy is used by companies
that produce unique or high-tech equipment,
which is designed and specially designed for a specific order.
This can be aerospace products,
or specific equipment for scientific and research activities, and so on.
In the table, you can see a diagram of how the changes in your production strategy
affect the delivery system strategy and model.
And how the delivery system becomes a source of competitive advantage.
In the warehouse production strategy,
you get a low production cost
in conjunction with a rapid response to customer requests.
Production on order gives you the opportunity to customize
and a low level of reserves increases the level of service.
Assembling on order also allows you to keep a low level of reserves
and reduce it to zero,
but along with a wide range and a choice of produced products,
in turn, it makes it easier to plan.
And finally, development on order allows you to meet specific requirements.
In the slide, you can see the division of production strategies by industry.
It is obvious that high-tech products, telecommunications and electronics
have a mixed strategy for production.
While products of wide consumption, packaged products,
are mainly produced on order and then unloaded.
In conclusion, I would like to say that no matter what the production strategy of the enterprise is,
it is quite obvious that the delivery management system
should be tied and regulated in such a way
to satisfy the customer's needs as much as possible
and meet the production requirements.
The outcome of logistics or distribution of finished products
is usually called the development of efficient channels of distribution of finished products to consumers.
The purpose of this system is to satisfy the customer's needs in the finished product in the best way.
Historically, in many companies, both before and still,
the function of outgoing logistics was associated partially with the work and functioning of the marketing department.
In this section, we will consider the main characteristics and principles of the function of outgoing logistics.
As we have already considered, the main task of distribution is the rule 7N.
The necessary product in the necessary quality should be delivered to the necessary place
to the necessary customer at the necessary price.
It will be useful to consider this rule in detail.
Let's consider the example of the production of a package with apple juice.
The necessary quality of the product means that the right transport,
the right packaging for transportation, and the right price were chosen.
The right price means that the right type of raw material, the right supplier, the right type of transport,
the right time and place of delivery of the product to the production site,
and the factor that the supplier provided the optimal delivery cost.
Each of the seven elements shows what it can mean in the context of information,
transportation, packaging, service, and management control.
Many companies have several channels for distributing the finished product.
The diagram below illustrates the possible distribution channels.
Let's describe these channels in our example of apple juice production.
The package with juice is delivered to the wholesale trading company from the manufacturer.
Then the transport company delivers it to the distribution warehouses,
from which restaurants, hotels, cafes, and supermarkets deliver the package to the final consumer.
Simply put, the distribution channel is the path that the product goes from the manufacturer to the final consumer.
Some distribution channels are simple.
For example, the trading company buys an apple from a farmer and sells it to the consumer.
Others are complicated.
The same example, but the trading company buys an apple from a wholesale seller,
who buys the product from the manufacturer.
Then the product is sold not to the final consumer, but to the intermediaries in the delivery system,
such as hotels, cafes, bars, and restaurants.
The danger that lies in the management of the distribution system
is the loss of communication between the supplier and the consumer.
This can be avoided by building a vertical marketing system,
in which all parties are interested in working to achieve the same goal.
It should be noted that many companies consider the incoming and outgoing logistics to be different disciplines.
Buyers and managers of distribution centers pay all their attention to the level of service.
Supply and distribution specialists ensure that there are no residuals.
Organizational structures do not see the whole picture of the business due to the lack of common information systems.
Moving in the direction of creating product value,
it should be noted that in the delivery system, which is designed to achieve the best result,
the entire chain from the supplier to the buyer is monitored and controlled by everyone,
without exception, including the members of this chain.
Thus, the correct structure of the management of the delivery system allows you to control the entire system
from the manufacturer to the buyer from start to finish.
The advantages of combining the work of two systems,
including the incoming and outgoing logistics,
are transparency and 100% control of the entire supply chain,
management of orders, downloads and deliveries in a single interface,
and the determination of new opportunities for transportation,
including on-the-go loads, delivery strategy, and so on.
It is also necessary to remember the distribution requirement planning strategy,
which is applicable in this case.
Planning of distribution requirements, which is used to plan distribution channels,
allows not only to coordinate the work of all systems,
but also to synchronize the needs of the customer and the production capabilities.
Thus, the main goal of creating effective distribution channels
is to achieve the tasks set by close cooperation between the supplier and the consumer.
The rapid development of the global economy in the 1980s and 1990s,
in parallel with the growth of the application of computers and computer technologies
in solving supply issues,
led to a rapid growth of opportunities for data and document exchange between suppliers and manufacturers.
This allowed both the buyer and the supplier to provide information to each other
much more timely and accurately,
while increasing the efficiency of work and reducing the bureaucratic burden,
as well as increasing the quality of decisions made.
In turn, the need for innovation and flexibility prompted many companies
to introduce data exchange systems and thus change the existing organizational structure
to reduce production costs.
The idea is that a successful organization has the ability to generate and transmit the necessary knowledge
and information both within the company and outside it.
Often, the term data exchange is associated primarily with electronic information systems.
This is not a coincidence, as in the modern world the necessary information
obtained in the right time is the main asset of the company.
The dynamics of the growth of companies in the world,
which use information technologies very highly,
can be seen in the table.
The number of companies using data exchange systems is growing.
In this section, we will consider some aspects of modern data transfer systems
that are used to efficiently manage the supply system.
Electronic data exchange is a process of transferring information
and formal business transactions in a standard format between organizations.
It has four forms.
1. Transmission of electronic funds, banks, calculations with suppliers at the point of sale.
2. Transmission of trading data, order for delivery,
3. Downloading of data from the account.
4. Transmission of technical data, drawings, graphics, interactive database.
In our country, the rapid growth of electronic data exchange
was caused by the growth of retail trading networks.
As in the rest of the world, the use of barcoding as an element of electronic data exchange
significantly accelerates the process of obtaining information within the supply system.
You have probably seen and can imagine what barcoding is.
These are parallel lines applied to the packaging or directly to the product.
These parallel lines are read by a scanner,
and the data encoded in this code is transmitted to the central computer.
The scheme of operation of the barcoding system is quite simple.
Let's take the example of the production of a package with apple juice.
When the product arrives at the warehouse of the finished product,
a barcode is applied to it.
This barcode is read by a scanner,
and the information about the packaging, the quantity of units of the product in the packaging,
is sent to the main computer of the manufacturer.
Then the manufacturer transfers this data to its supplier.
After the physical product has arrived at the supplier's warehouse,
the supplier is responsible for receiving the product.
The scanner reads this information, and the information is sent to the supplier's computer.
When the product is sold,
for example, when you buy a particular product in a supermarket cashier,
you see that the scanner reads the information.
After the data is read and the payment is made,
the information about the payment is sent to the supermarket's warehouse,
and automatically to the supplier's warehouse.
The supplier knows that the product has been sold,
and a new order for delivery is automatically generated.
There are several reasons for the increase in the use of electronic data exchange systems.
The use of electronic data exchange systems becomes a standard practice in all companies,
especially in the production sector.
The desire to reduce the production cycle
supports the use of electronic data exchange systems.
These systems also allow to create a higher additional cost
and to free up human, financial and temporary resources
that were previously involved in the process of data exchange.
As mentioned above,
the main focus of the delivery systems managers
is on the process of data exchange.
This is due to the ability to respond quickly to customer requests
and to information about deliveries.
These systems are called ERP, Enterprise Resource Planning,
which is a system of resource planning.
The delivery systems are characterized by the following functions.
The management of stocks,
purchase,
product configurator,
delivery system planning,
production forecasting,
quality control,
processing of claims,
calculation of commission discounts.
The system of data storage about suppliers and buyers,
the so-called general corporate memory of the enterprise,
is often used by many employees of the procurement department
as a database for choosing suppliers of a particular product
in order to reduce the time for searching and increase the efficiency of their work.
In conclusion,
in order to understand the importance of the resource planning system
for managing the delivery system,
it is important to understand and characterize the main tasks
that are set by the procurement system managers.
One of the main tasks is to reduce the bureaucratic waste,
which allows to release human resources.
Reducing the workforce required for processing information
allows to reduce the time required for processing from 15 to 40%.
Accelerating the development of the integrated supply and raw material management system
allows to manage the raw material supplies of the buyer.
The third party trading network is used.
At the same time, the intensity of the interaction between the buyer and the department
that consumes raw material and suppliers increases.
Electronic data exchange also helps to significantly reduce the total overhead costs.
Some advantages of the introduction of electronic data exchange are given below.
Electronic payment systems,
purchasing without the use of paper carriers,
professionalism in purchasing,
growth of productivity,
reduction of the level of stocks,
reduction of the time for processing orders,
creating an improved connection with suppliers and consumers,
obtaining reliable and fast information,
increased accuracy of data,
support of the barcoding system.
However, along with the advantages,
it is necessary to note the significant difficulties that arise before companies
in the process of introducing electronic data exchange systems.
Some companies make decisions about gradual automation of processes,
other companies start a business right away
and at the very beginning introduce automated accounting and management systems.
The difficulties are the following.
The cost of software.
Very often companies face this difficulty because they do not see the whole picture
and buy a small module that can cover or solve the problem of a separate site,
but does not solve the problem of the whole system or the whole organization.
The next problem is the cost of the program.
This includes the services of consultants,
training of staff,
modernization of equipment,
purchase of new equipment,
reorganization of existing workplaces,
laying of networks, communications and so on.
One of the difficulties of non-material nature
can be attributed to the resistance of existing staff to new introductions.
So, people who are used to working with the old system,
can resist the introduction of new processes,
especially if it is related to the dismissal of staff
or the reorganization of the company as a whole.
The reorganization of business processes of the enterprise,
both separate and the whole company as a whole.
And the last, but one of the most significant problems
is the coordination of certain functions of the system
between all departments, between all elements of the company.
Each user of the same information should receive it on time
and should receive exactly what is necessary.
I will give an example.
At the time of sale of a unit of finished product,
the financial department, the procurement department, the sales department,
each should see in their own way,
from their side, this element, this operation.
That is, for the financial department,
the implementation of the product took place and money should be received.
For the sales department, it is a disbursement.
For the supply department, it is a command to purchase raw materials
for the production of a new unit of product.
As you can see from the above,
the process of managing electronic data exchange systems
is quite attractive from the point of view of enterprise management.
But, in turn, it is very difficult from the point of view of the implementation
of this system for production and its launch.
Nevertheless, the main goal that the company pursues
by implementing an electronic data exchange system
is quality and timely service of the customer.
All of the above allows us to understand how the system works,
what its main components are,
how effective this system works,
how effective the operation of one or another element is.
Do you know how it works?
If not, you risk losing the relationship between the supplier and the customer,
reducing the company's cost and actually losing control over the costs.
The lack of information on how your supply system works
and how effectively it works is particularly dangerous for those activities
where the supply system is the basis of business operation.
This includes production, retail and wholesale companies.
The danger is so great that mistakes and lack of information
can lead to bankruptcy of the company.
There is a saying,
if you cannot measure, you cannot correct.
Very rarely there are programs that would allow to measure
the work and efficiency of the system and the supply in general,
that would help to show the whole picture of the system.
They would be quite clear and simple
and would point to the source of the problem in the system.
The reason is simple.
Creating a strong, effective and understandable supply system
is a very complex process in itself.
Even the process of matching the indicators of efficiency measurement
between different departments, between the financial,
between the production and the supply departments
is a complex process in itself.
Moreover, automating it makes it even more complicated.
The main problem is the matching of the criteria.
The indicator of efficiency for the financial department,
what the financial department does,
is not always the same as the sales department.
And the fact that the sales department is not always
a sufficient or correct criterion for the assessment of the production.
I suggest you think about the criteria for the assessment of the work
that is used at your enterprise.
Surely, in many companies there are surveys
for the assessment of the level of work of the sales department,
the assessment of the level of work of the suppliers,
how they interact with each other.
Unfortunately, in most organizations,
they pay attention only to the financial indicators of the system.
This is not surprising, because the financial reports
and financial indicators are indicators of the work of the entire company as a whole.
But the assessment of the work of the supply system
should not be limited to digital values,
only financial indicators.
Financial indicators do not reflect the picture at this particular time,
or they speak about the picture, about the results of the work already done.
But financial indicators cannot reflect the efficiency of the system in the future.
Moreover, for example, for companies whose shares are traded
on the New York stock exchange,
after a series of corporate scandals in the late 1990s,
standards were introduced, which must be implemented in all companies
whose shares are traded on the stock exchange.
This document is called the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The document describes the main requirements for accounting,
spending, fairness of financial reporting as a whole.
A lot of attention is paid to the implementation and administration of documentation,
control, procedures and figures obtained.
Therefore, the main requirement of this Act
is the correct and effective construction of control procedures in the company.
But if the financial indicators of the system can help determine
the degree of influence of the supply system on the financial state of the company,
then I believe that these criteria may not be applicable
to measure the performance of the system as a whole.
The answer lies on the surface.
The financial indicators represent the performance of the company in the past
and do not give an opportunity to see the future.
Also, the financial indicators do not provide us with non-financial information,
such as the level of service, customer service,
or the quality of the order for delivery.
Is it really so important to measure the performance of the system and delivery?
Of course.
Especially for novice companies, it is very important to understand
and determine at the initial stage what criteria,
what assessments will be used to measure the efficiency of the enterprise,
and to identify the problem in time and react to it in time.
As we have already said, the delivery system consists of five components.
These are planning, search, production, purchase and storage.
Identifying the criteria for assessing the efficiency of work in each of these elements
will help us to determine which element requires improvement
and will help us to correctly identify the problem.
In turn, the process of measuring the indicators of the system's operation,
also called KPI,
helps the delivery system workers to clearly understand what the management expects from them
and becomes a tool that allows them to measure the process over time.
It is very difficult to determine the indicators of the delivery system's operation.
It is even more difficult to measure them.
The table shows the main indicators and their definition.
The reliability of deliveries can be described by the efficiency of delivery,
the number of orders, the quality of delivery.
By the way the company processes orders, we can see the efficiency of the system,
the correctness of the selection of the place, time, quality, quantity of processing of documentation.
The ability to respond quickly to the customer's needs is characterized by the time of the order.
The speed at which the delivery chain helps to produce a product
and deliver it from the manufacturer to the end consumer.
Flexibility.
Flexibility can be measured by the time the delivery system responds to the consumer's requirements.
Flexibility of production.
The ability of the delivery system to adapt and respond quickly to the changing market demands,
to the changing customer's demands.
Costs.
The cost is a classic example that can be attributed to the financial indicators of the system's operation.
The cost of production, the cost of the delivery system,
the productivity, the guarantee of return on investment,
and the efficiency of asset management.
The efficiency of asset management is measured by the time of the money-money cycle,
that is, from the moment of payment of raw materials to the moment of payment of money for the finished product.
Of course, at the highest level, expectations of efficient management of the delivery system are associated with financial indicators.
However, the indicators of the measurement of the delivery system have three main goals.
First, they must translate financial indicators and tasks into operational ones.
You translate quantitative indicators into plans and budgets.
If, for example, the primary task is to reduce the cost of distribution,
then there are changes made in the budget to establish specific goals for reducing costs.
This can be changing the type of transportation, changing the type of warehouse for storing finished products, changing the place.
Second, you must translate operational achievements into more predictable forecasts of future sales and revenues.
You set specific individual and collective goals that are related to the overall strategy of the company.
For example, if you plan to stimulate the reduction of costs for delivery,
the goal of distribution centers will be to reduce the percentage of urgent orders or urgent deliveries, respectively, more expensive, compared to standard ones.
In order to track changes in the process, you can measure the percentage or level of implementation of new initiatives,
which allows you to reduce high delivery tariffs.
For example, the desire to receive goods in the off-work time, on the day off, when the tariffs are significantly lower than when the company strives to receive the delivery during the working day.
Third, you must set the tone of work of the entire team of people working in the delivery management system, which supports the strategy of the entire business.
Thus, the measurement of the efficiency of the delivery management system allows you to determine how the overall work of the system is improving or deteriorating, and what actions are necessary to change the situation.
In order to make the measures of efficiency of the company's work regular, your company must first of all decide on the approach to efficiency measurement.
During my entire work, I came to the conclusion that for the quality measurement of the efficiency of the system, the indicators should have such characteristics
They should be balanced and understandable. They should be in line with the general business strategy of the company. The goals should be taken into account by the internal and external standards of the company.
They should be ambitious, but achievable. At all levels of the company, there is an opportunity to track and control the assessment criteria.
The assessment criteria are used as a tool for the constant improvement of the efficiency of the system.
The process of measuring efficiency is implemented through a formal plan. For example, the leading manufacturer of personal computers has developed a business strategy based on low production costs, constant innovation and a production scheme for a warehouse for quick response to customer orders.
Each production unit should produce products with the lowest costs, have ready-made products for shipment to the warehouse, and within 2-3 days after receiving the order.
In this case, the criteria for measuring the efficiency of the system will be the cost of production, the efficiency of delivery and the speed of order execution.
Since the main criteria for assessing the work are financial indicators, I would like to draw the attention of listeners to the financial indicators and financial characteristics of costs.
The control over these costs is a criterion for the efficiency of the delivery system within the framework of the entire enterprise.
Since the main indicators of the delivery system are financial results, I would like to draw the attention of listeners to the costs and their types, which are usually associated with the management of the delivery system as a whole.
The control over these costs and the desire to reduce them is a criterion for assessing the work of the supply department as a part of the enterprise.
The table shows the types of costs.
The types of costs can be attributed to the management of orders, such as the costs of launching a new product, designing and developing a new product,
the actual creation of the order of the supplier, the management of contracts, the implementation of them, the storage, the planning of the installation, the distribution, the transportation, the freight, the duties, and the administration of the issuance of accounts and the accounting of orders.
The acquisition of materials.
The acquisition of materials is associated with the costs of managing and planning the raw materials, technical management of the quality of the suppliers, obtaining and storing of raw materials,
the control of the quality during the acceptance, the storage of supplies.
The costs associated with this are the costs incurred during the writing-off of the marriage, insurance, taxes, the general aging of supplies, the writing-off of the warehouse from production, the unfinished production and the finished product.
Finances and planning.
The financial costs associated with the functioning of the supply system, the costs of planning the needs and the management systems of information are related to the planning of the needs, the planning of the supply of the finished product,
the costs incurred during the search and acquisition of materials.
In conclusion, I would like to note that since the management strategy of the supply system is inextricably linked with the strategy of the company as a whole, you need to choose the criteria for assessing the work of the system, which would accurately show the compliance of the current situation with the goals set.
There are many definitions of strategic planning.
One of the pioneers of the strategic approach, Peter Dracker, gives the following definition.
Strategic planning is a constant process of systematic decision-making in the field of entrepreneurship, with an understanding of the possible prospects of the organization, systematic efforts to implement these decisions and assess the results of these decisions in relation to the forecasts of the organization through constant feedback.
In the context of defining a strategy, a question arises about what we need to do today in order to achieve our goals tomorrow.
We can say that a strategy is an action plan designed to achieve specific short-term and long-term goals.
In this regard, the management of the supply systems and the strategy for managing the supply systems should be clearly coordinated and tied to the overall strategy of the company.
The key question is how the supply system can effectively influence the overall goals and the strategy of the company.
I would note the key word here – effectively. It means more than just following the directives of the senior management. It means contributing to the process of strategic planning, in which the company's units and goals include the possibilities and problems of supply.
When choosing a strategy for managing the supply system, managers should consider three levels of the strategy.
The corporate level is the highest, that is, how to distribute resources most effectively. The level of the units. The decisions at this level are formed by the plans of a specific unit or department.
And the functional level is the plans that are put before a specific specialist and a specific function. There is no single term or name of a strategy that describes the entire cycle of the supply system.
For example, Toyota uses the delivery of parts and materials exactly on time and the Kanban system for production.
While the strategy of the realization of these vehicles can be described as a mixture of production for order for large dealers and production for warehouse for small dealers, who do not make an order, but buy what the company offers in the warehouse.
The last way is the way of domestic car manufacturers, manufacturers of components, spare parts, etc. As in every discipline, there are problems in the supply system, which many specialists are working on.
Very often, the main problems are the following. 1. The implementation of the supply system as a corporate practice. 2. The implementation of technologies. 3. The determination of the structure of the organization and the supply system. 4. Overcoming distrust and establishing partnership between systems and elements within the organization.
5. Determination of roles and responsibility zones. 6. Selection of necessary specialists with the necessary knowledge and skills. 7. Areas for further study.
The goals of the supply system. At present, many organizations focus on the effective structure within the organization. In the future, it is recommended to focus on the expanded connections with suppliers and consumers.
The content of the supply system strategy. The functional strategy is integrated as part of the general strategy of the supply system to achieve improvements in the company's overall performance. This is what should be strived for.
The support of the general strategy of the company. At present, the strategies of the supply system are focused on planning, search, production, delivery.
In the future, it is proposed to coordinate not only these five elements, but also to achieve success in the field of marketing, sales, service technologies and the strategic development of fundamentally new products.
The segmentation of the supply system. One model or set of possible systems and the goals of the supply system dominate. This is how many systems work at the moment. And the possibility of applying other systems and models is limited.
It is proposed to study a multimodal or a multitude of models for managing the supply system for effective work in rapidly changing conditions.
The expansion beyond the framework of one enterprise. Despite the fact that a large number of enterprises understand the need for expansion and deepening of effective relations with external organizations, the actions of the supply system are still aimed at solving and optimizing relations with suppliers and customers within the company.
The main elements of the system are the main elements of their functioning and role in the overall chain. The main indicators of the measurement of the efficiency of the work, the main definitions of the elements of the supply system, and the main indicators of the efficiency of the supply system are the main elements of the system.
The main indicators of the efficiency of the supply system are the main elements of the system.
Thus, you can understand the main tasks and goals of the supply system, distinguish the main elements, know their functional tasks, understand how these elements interact with each other, have the opportunity to determine the main elements of a particular enterprise and give a general assessment or determine the criteria for the efficiency of their supply system.
Let's focus on the main recommendations. There are five basic principles of the organization of the supply system. They are at the heart of the system of the highest quality.
They allow to create a system that will constantly allow to achieve success, to achieve competitive advantage. These are the five principles.
Consider your supply system as a strategic asset of the company. Create a clear scheme of processes from start to finish. Develop an organizational structure that will allow you to use personnel resources in the best way.
Create a model of management of the supply system that will allow to maximize the involvement of all participants in the supply system. Use and apply the indicators of the efficiency of the enterprise to achieve the goals set.